Add Enhanced Dev Preview documentation (#8)
openshift/network-edge-tools: docs/blogs/EnhancedDevPreviewGatewayAPI/GettingStarted.md

```

Enable the feature gate for Gateway API. This will instruct the cluster Ingress Operator to install the GatewayClass CRD:
```shell
$ oc patch featuregates/cluster --type=merge --patch='{"spec":{"featureSet":"CustomNoUpgrade","customNoUpgrade":{"enabled":["GatewayAPI"]}}}'
```

Next, create the GatewayClass with the controller name “openshift.io/gateway-controller”. This will instruct the Ingress Operator to create a SMCP and install the Gateway, HTTPRoute, and Reference Grant CRDs:
```shell
$ oc create -f -<<'EOF'
apiVersion: gateway.networking.k8s.io/v1beta1
kind: GatewayClass
metadata:
  name: openshift-default
spec:
  controllerName: openshift.io/gateway-controller
EOF
```

Confirm the Ingress Operator has installed the HttpRoute, Gateway, and ReferenceGrant CRDs:
```shell
$ oc get crds httproutes.gateway.networking.k8s.io gateways.gateway.networking.k8s.io referencegrants.gateway.networking.k8s.io
NAME                                        CREATED AT
httproutes.gateway.networking.k8s.io        2023-04-04T18:02:55Z
gateways.gateway.networking.k8s.io          2023-04-04T18:02:55Z
referencegrants.gateway.networking.k8s.io   2023-04-04T18:02:56Z
```

> Confirm the Ingress Operator has created the SMCP and it is ready:

Reviewer: This took 40 seconds on OpenShift 4.14.  May want to tell them to wait for it.

Author: Done.

Reviewer: The first thing I see is a somewhat misleading message like below, so I would tell them to wait a minute or two and then check.

>  oc get smcp -n openshift-ingress
> error: the server doesn't have a resource type "smcp"
>

Author: Yea I actually ran this myself recently, it takes a long time to show up, I'll be more specific.

Author: Done

# Getting Started

> 

Reviewer: If you haven't read the original blog with an overview of the Gateway API components, please take a minute to review it at `link to IntroGatewayAPI.md`

Author: Oh my links got dropped when I copied/pasted - Added a sentence like this with a link to the original blog.

> As a follow on to the Openshift 4.12 Developer Preview of Gateway API, OpenShift has released Enhanced Developer Preview for Gateway API support in OCP 4.13.z. With Enhanced Dev Preview, developers can now install and configure Gateway API with the Ingress Operator.

Reviewer: Can we start calling it OpenShift Istio Gateway API now?

Author: Added.

In Enhanced Dev Preview, the ingress operator will manage the following:

> * Installing Istio via v2.4 of the OpenShift Service Mesh (OSSM) operator

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Installing the OpenShift Service Mesh (OSSM) operator version 2.4.0 to access Istio
```

Author: Done.

> * Installing Gateway API CRDs (v0.5.1)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Installing version 0.5.1 Gateway API custom resource definitions
```

Author: Done.

Configuring a Service Mesh Control Plane (SMCP)

> Automatic creation of DNS Records for Gateways (using Istio’s automated deployments only)

Reviewer 2: Looks like the bullets got lost:
```suggestion
In Enhanced Dev Preview, the ingress operator will manage the following:
* Installing Istio via v2.4 of the OpenShift Service Mesh (OSSM) operator
* Installing Gateway API CRDs (v0.5.1)
* Configuring a Service Mesh Control Plane (SMCP)
* Automatic creation of DNS Records for Gateways (using Istio’s automated deployments only)
```

Author: Whoops, thanks.

> * Automatic creation of DNS Records for Gateways (using Istio’s automated deployments only)

Reviewer: Some mention of the load balancer would be good.  Also, I'm not sure people will know what `Istio's automated deployments only` will mean in this context (even I don't know).  Do you mean that DNS records are only created if the automated deployment is enabled?  But I think automated deployment is the default, and people cannot change that.

Author: Load Balancing was originally left out since the Ingress Operator doesn't actually do anything with Load Balancers, that's actually an Istio respondiblity. I'll add a bullet that reflects that the Ingress Operator is enabling Istio to make this to happen and hopefully that will make it clear.

My link got dropped for Automated Deployments. We don't support DNS with manual deployments  (see bug https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-8526).

> Do you mean that DNS records are only created if the automated deployment is enabled? But I think automated deployment is the default, and people cannot change that.

No - DNS records will only be created if you _use_ an automated deployment. Yes, we enable/allow automated deployments by default, but you can still chose to deploy a manual deployment style Gateway, which might leave the user confused as it doesn't create a DNS record.

I reworded to be focused on Gateway API object, regarding `spec.addresses`, let me know if that makes it clearer.

## Prerequisites
* A non-production OpenShift Cluster, version v4.13.z or greater, on a cloud platform that supports Kubernetes external load balancers

> * If OSSM is already installed, it must be OSSM 2.4

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* If OSSM is already installed, it must be OSSM 2.4.0.
```

Author: Good point. Done.

```

Confirm the ingress operator has successfully installed the GatewayClass CRD:
```shell
$ oc get crd gatewayclasses.gateway.networking.k8s.io
NAME                                       CREATED AT
gatewayclasses.gateway.networking.k8s.io   2023-04-04T18:02:55
```

Next, create the GatewayClass with the controller name “openshift.io/gateway-controller”. This will instruct the ingress operator to create a SMCP and install the Gateway, HTTPRoute, and Reference Grant CRDs:
```shell
$ oc create -f -<<'EOF'
apiVersion: gateway.networking.k8s.io/v1beta1
kind: GatewayClass
metadata:
  name: openshift-default
spec:
  controllerName: openshift.io/gateway-controller
EOF
```

Confirm the ingress operator has installed the HttpRoute, Gateway, and ReferenceGrant CRDs:
```shell
$ oc get crds httproutes.gateway.networking.k8s.io gateways.gateway.networking.k8s.io referencegrants.gateway.networking.k8s.io
NAME                                        CREATED AT
httproutes.gateway.networking.k8s.io        2023-04-04T18:02:55Z
gateways.gateway.networking.k8s.io          2023-04-04T18:02:55Z
referencegrants.gateway.networking.k8s.io   2023-04-04T18:02:56Z

> ```

Reviewer: I don't think we need to explain each thing that the c-i-o is doing here, nor ask people to verify it step by step.

```suggestion
Enable the feature gate for Gateway API. 
```shell
$ oc patch featuregates/cluster --type=merge --patch='{"spec":{"featureSet":"CustomNoUpgrade","customNoUpgrade":{"enabled":["GatewayAPI"]}}}'
```

Next, create the GatewayClass with the controller name “openshift.io/gateway-controller”. 
```shell
$ oc create -f -<<'EOF'
apiVersion: gateway.networking.k8s.io/v1beta1
kind: GatewayClass
metadata:
  name: openshift-default
spec:
  controllerName: openshift.io/gateway-controller
EOF
```

Confirm the ingress operator has installed the HttpRoute, Gateway, GatewayClass, and ReferenceGrant CRDs:
```shell
$ oc get crds httproutes.gateway.networking.k8s.io  gateways.gateway.networking.k8s.io 
 gatewayclasses.gateway.networking.k8s.io referencegrants.gateway.networking.k8s.io 
NAME                                        CREATED AT
httproutes.gateway.networking.k8s.io        2023-04-04T18:02:55Z
gateways.gateway.networking.k8s.io          2023-04-04T18:02:55Z
gatewayclasses.gateway.networking.k8s.io   2023-04-04T18:02:55
referencegrants.gateway.networking.k8s.io   2023-04-04T18:02:56Z
```

Author: Okay I interpreted this just to remove:
```
Confirm the ingress operator has successfully installed the GatewayClass CRD:
$ oc get crd gatewayclasses.gateway.networking.k8s.io
NAME                                       CREATED AT
gatewayclasses.gateway.networking.k8s.io   2023-04-04T18:02:55
```

Let me know if I misunderstood. Done.

Author: Actually, while I was testing the blog again, I realized the step removed here was quite helpful. It indicates to the users they need to wait for the `GatewayClass` CRD to appear before proceeding. I tripped up on this and was wondering why the SMCP didn't get installed. If I made a mistake, then I can only assume customers will also make this mistake.

Added it back, but changed the wording to `Wait for the ingress operator to successfully install the GatewayClass CRD:` so it's not just informational, but actionable.

Confirm the ingress operator has created the SMCP and it is ready:
```shell
$ oc get smcp -n openshift-ingress
NAME                READY   STATUS            PROFILES      VERSION   AGE
openshift-gateway   5/5     ComponentsReady   ["default"]   2.4.0     107s
```

OSSM will create two new Istio deployments in the openshift-ingress namespace. Ensure the pods for the deployments are running. These will need to become ready for the SMCP to also go ready:
```shell
$ oc get deployment -n openshift-ingress
NAME                       READY   UP-TO-DATE   AVAILABLE   AGE
istio-ingressgateway       1/1     1            1           42s
istiod-openshift-gateway   1/1     1            1           55s
router-default             2/2     2            2           6h4m
```

Gateway API and OSSM have been installed successfully and are ready to use. We are now ready to create Gateways and HTTPRoutes.

## Gateway API Example

> Let’s now use Gateway API to create a Gateway and Route. In this example, we will convert a simple HTTP OpenShift Route into roughly equivalent Gateway API objects (Gateway, HTTPRoute). This is what the OpenShift Route example would look like:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let’s now use Gateway API to create a Gateway and Route. In this example, we will convert a simple HTTP OpenShift Route into roughly equivalent Gateway API objects (Gateway, HTTPRoute). This is an example of OpenShift Route that we will convert:
```

Author: Done.

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Route
metadata:
  name: http
  namespace: demo-app
spec:
  host: demo.gwapi.${DOMAIN}
  to:
    kind: Service
    name: foo-app
  port:
    targetPort: 8080
```

> First, create the Gateway with a Listener that will listen for requests on a URL under the cluster domain. The Gateway must be created in the openshift-ingress namespace and specify the GatewayClass created earlier. By default, Istio will automatically provision a gateway deployment and service with the same name upon creation of this Gateway object:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First, create the Gateway with a Listener (spec.Listeners instance) that will listen for requests on a URL under the cluster domain. The Gateway must be created in the openshift-ingress namespace and specify in spec.gatewayClassName the GatewayClass we created earlier. By default, Istio will automatically provision a gateway deployment and service with the same name upon creation of this Gateway object:
```

Reviewer: i would suggest moving the "By default, Istio will automatically provision a gateway deployment and service with the same name upon creation of this Gateway object:" to another section and show the deployment and service.

Author: Done and Done.

```yaml
$ DOMAIN=$(oc get ingresses.config/cluster -o jsonpath={.spec.domain})
$ oc apply -f - <<EOF
apiVersion: gateway.networking.k8s.io/v1beta1
kind: Gateway
metadata:

>   name: gateway

Reviewer: If you give it a special name, there is no confusion later about whether the use of the word gateway in HTTPRoute is due to kind or name.
```suggestion
  name: demo-gateway
```

Author: Good point, done.

  namespace: openshift-ingress
spec:
  gatewayClassName: openshift-default
  listeners:
  - name: demo
    hostname: "*.gwapi.${DOMAIN}"
    port: 80
    protocol: HTTP
    allowedRoutes:
      namespaces:
        from: All
EOF
```

When the Gateway from the previous step is created, the ingress operator will automatically create a DNSRecord with the hostname from the listener:
```shell
$ oc get dnsrecord -n openshift-ingress
NAME                         AGE
gateway-7b49f58c6-wildcard   6m11s
```

Next, let’s create and configure a namespace called demo-app that will have our HTTPRoute object and our example application:
```shell
$ oc create namespace demo-app
```

> Create a demo application deployment and service using oc new-app, our cakephp-ingress-demo project, and the foo git branch. This will create a simple server, foo-app, that will allow us to test connectivity. Then use the oc rollout command to wait for it to be rolled out:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create a demo application deployment and service using oc new-app, our cakephp-ingress-demo project, and the foo git branch. This will create a simple server, foo-app, that will allow us to test connectivity. Then use the `oc rollout` command to wait for it to be rolled out:
```

Author: Done.

```shell
$ oc new-app -n demo-app --name foo-app https://github.com/openshiftdemos/cakephp-ingress-demo#foo
$ oc rollout status deployment -w -n demo-app foo-app
```

> Create the HTTPRoute that will direct requests for http.example.com to our new backend server, foo-app. Note that the parentRefs points to the Gateway, rules specify a backendRefs to our service, and hostnames align with the Gateway’s Listeners hostnames:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create the HTTPRoute that will direct requests for "*.gwapi.${DOMAIN}" to our new backend server, foo-app. Note that the parentRefs points to the Gateway, rules specify a backendRefs to our service, and hostnames align with the Gateway’s Listeners hostnames:
```

Author: Ah good catch

```yaml
$ oc apply -f - <<EOF
apiVersion: gateway.networking.k8s.io/v1beta1
kind: HTTPRoute
metadata:
  name: http
  namespace: demo-app
spec:
  parentRefs:
  - name: gateway
    namespace: openshift-ingress
  hostnames: ["demo.gwapi.${DOMAIN}"]
  rules:
  - backendRefs:
    - name: foo-app
      port: 8080
EOF
```

> Wait for the gateway deployment (Envoy) to be ready:

Reviewer: I wouldn't even mention Envoy here.  If you do, it should be introduced much earlier, and not with just one word :)

Author: Done.

```shell
$ oc wait -n openshift-ingress --for=condition=ready gateways.gateway.networking.k8s.io gateway
```

Now let’s curl the route we just created using an HTTP Head request to only get the headers. The app response header should have a value of foo for our demo application. You may have to wait a couple minutes for DNS if your platform uses a domain name for the service’s External IP:
```shell
$ curl -I http://demo.gwapi.${DOMAIN}
```
You should see a 200 response code:
```shell
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
server: istio-envoy
app: foo
...

> ```

Reviewer: Something to lead to the next section maybe, like:

Thanks for trying OpenShift Istio Gateway API.  If you'd like to learn more, go to `section on Getting Creative`.

Author: Good point, done.

# Getting Started

In this section, we will show you how to install and configure Gateway API and Istio via the Ingress Operator. We will

> configure a simple HTTPRoute and backend to demo basic Gateway API functionality.

Reviewer 2: Istio is an implementation detail.  We're not hiding that we use Istio, but neither are we emphasizing it.  How about simply "install and configure Gateway API <ins>on OpenShift</ins>"?
```suggestion
In this section, we will show you how to install and configure Gateway API on OpenShift. We will
configure a simple HTTPRoute and backend to demo basic Gateway API functionality.
```

Author: Done.

## Prerequisites

> * A non-production OpenShift Cluster, version v4.13.z or greater, on a cloud platform that supports Kubernetes external

Reviewer 2: This will need to be updated once we know for certain which release includes the fix for [OCPBUGS-15434](https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-15434).
```suggestion
* A non-production OpenShift Cluster, version v4.13.5 or greater, on a cloud platform that supports Kubernetes external
```

Author: Done.

> * A non-production OpenShift Cluster, version v4.13.z or greater, on a cloud platform that supports Kubernetes external

Author: ```suggestion
* A non-production OpenShift Cluster, version v4.13.z or greater, on a cloud platform that supports Kubernetes service
```

Author: Done.

  load balancers
* If OSSM is already installed, it must be OSSM 2.4.0

> * If OSSM is already installed, you cannot have any existing SMCPs

Reviewer 2: I think it's clearer if you say 
```suggestion
* If OSSM is already installed, you must not have any existing SMCP CRs
```
Or spell SMCP out as this is the first time it is used in this section:
```suggestion
* If OSSM is already installed, you must not have any existing ServiceMeshControlPlane CRs
```

Author: Done

* The [OpenShift CLI](https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.11/cli_reference/openshift_cli/getting-started-cli.html#cli-installing-cli_cli-developer-commands) binary (oc)

## Installation via the Ingress Operator
To install Gateway API using the Ingress Operator, you will do the following:
1. Grant the Ingress Operator the cluster-admin role
2. Enable the feature gate
3. Create a GatewayClass with the controller name “openshift.io/gateway-controller”

Let’s walk through each of these steps in more detail.

> First, grant the Ingress Operator the cluster-admin role. Currently, OSSM requires the cluster-admin role to create SMCPs:

Reviewer 2: I think this is clearer:
```suggestion
First, grant the Ingress Operator the cluster-admin role. This role is required in order for the Ingress Operator to create the SMCP CR for OSSM:
```
It might be prudent to add a note that this requirement will be removed for tech preview.  I'm wary of making promises that we cannot keep, but I don't think we can go GA with an implementation that requires giving an operator the cluster-admin role, and we might preëmpt some consternation if we say up front that the requirement is only for dev preview.

Author: Done and added  a note, I didn't mention tech preview, but said future release.

```shell
$ oc adm policy add-cluster-role-to-user cluster-admin -z ingress-operator -n openshift-ingress-operator
```

> Enable the feature gate for Gateway API. This will instruct the cluster Ingress Operator to install the GatewayClass CRD:

Reviewer 2: The ingress operator installs all the CRDs when the feature gate is enabled (this is why they all have the same "CREATED AT" time, plus or minus 1 second).
```suggestion
Enable the feature gate for Gateway API. This will instruct the cluster Ingress Operator to install the Gateway API CRDs:
```

Author: Oh the evidence of that is right here in this blog...I added the wait for everything right here.

```shell
$ oc patch featuregates/cluster --type=merge --patch='{"spec":{"featureSet":"CustomNoUpgrade","customNoUpgrade":{"enabled":["GatewayAPI"]}}}'
```

Wait for the ingress operator to successfully install the GatewayClass CRD:
```shell
$ oc get crd gatewayclasses.gateway.networking.k8s.io
NAME                                       CREATED AT
gatewayclasses.gateway.networking.k8s.io   2023-04-04T18:02:55
```

> Next, create the GatewayClass with the controller name “openshift.io/gateway-controller”. This will instruct the Ingress Operator to create a SMCP and install the Gateway, HTTPRoute, and Reference Grant CRDs:

Reviewer 2: The ingress operator has already created the CRDs at this point, but it does create the subscription to install OSSM and then creates the SMCP:
```suggestion
Next, create the GatewayClass with the controller name “openshift.io/gateway-controller”. This will instruct the Ingress Operator to install OSSM and configure it:
```

Author: Done.

```shell
$ oc create -f -<<'EOF'
apiVersion: gateway.networking.k8s.io/v1beta1
kind: GatewayClass
metadata:
  name: openshift-default
spec:
  controllerName: openshift.io/gateway-controller
EOF
```

> Confirm the Ingress Operator has installed the HttpRoute, Gateway, and ReferenceGrant CRDs:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Confirm the Ingress Operator has installed the HTTPRoute, Gateway, and ReferenceGrant CRDs:
```
or
```suggestion
Confirm the Ingress Operator has installed the httproutes, gateways, and referencegrants CRDs:
```
It might be less confusing if you moved this confirmation step to the previous step.

Author: Done

```shell
$ oc get crds httproutes.gateway.networking.k8s.io gateways.gateway.networking.k8s.io referencegrants.gateway.networking.k8s.io
NAME                                        CREATED AT
httproutes.gateway.networking.k8s.io        2023-04-04T18:02:55Z
gateways.gateway.networking.k8s.io          2023-04-04T18:02:55Z
referencegrants.gateway.networking.k8s.io   2023-04-04T18:02:56Z
```

> Wait a minute or two for the Ingress Operator to create the SMCP and ensure the SMCP becomes ready:

Reviewer 2: This might be a good place to introduce SMCPs; for example, "Behind the scenes, the Ingress Operator creates a ServiceMeshControlPlane (SMCP) CR, which is the configuration API for OSSM."

Author: Good idea. Done.

```shell
$ oc get smcp -n openshift-ingress
NAME                READY   STATUS            PROFILES      VERSION   AGE
openshift-gateway   5/5     ComponentsReady   ["default"]   2.4.0     107s
```

OSSM will create two new Istio deployments in the `openshift-ingress` namespace. Ensure the pods for the deployments are running. These will need to become ready for the SMCP to also go ready:
```shell
$ oc get deployment -n openshift-ingress
NAME                       READY   UP-TO-DATE   AVAILABLE   AGE
istio-ingressgateway       1/1     1            1           42s
istiod-openshift-gateway   1/1     1            1           55s
router-default             2/2     2            2           6h4m
```

Gateway API and OSSM have been installed successfully and are ready to use. We are now ready to create Gateways and HTTPRoutes.

## Gateway API Example

> Let’s now use Gateway API to create a Gateway and Route. In this example, we will convert a simple HTTP OpenShift Route into roughly equivalent Gateway API objects (Gateway, HTTPRoute). This is an example of OpenShift Route that we will convert:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Let’s now use Gateway API to create a Gateway and Route. In this example, we will convert a simple HTTP OpenShift Route into roughly equivalent Gateway API objects (a Gateway and an HTTPRoute). This is the OpenShift Route that we will convert:
```

Author: Done.

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Route
metadata:
  name: http
  namespace: demo-app
spec:
  host: demo.gwapi.${DOMAIN}
  to:
    kind: Service
    name: foo-app
  port:
    targetPort: 8080
```

> First, create the Gateway with a Listener (`spec.Listeners` instance) that will listen for requests on a URL under the cluster domain. The Gateway must be created in the `openshift-ingress` namespace and specify in the `spec.gatewayClassName` the GatewayClass we created earlier.

Reviewer 2: Use consistent capitalization when referencing fields names (e.g. Go-syntax `Spec.Listeners` or JSON-style `spec.listeners`, but not `spec.Listeners`).  It isn't clear what means to "listen for requests on a URL"; the listener must specify a port that the proxy listens on, and the listener can further specify a host name or domain the proxy uses to match HTTP requests.  The example here uses a subdomain of the cluster domain, not the cluster domain itself.  
```suggestion
First, create the Gateway with a Listener (using the `spec.listeners` field) that will listen on a port for HTTP requests that match a subdomain of the cluster domain. The Gateway must be created in the `openshift-ingress` namespace and specify the GatewayClass that we created earlier in the `spec.gatewayClassName` field.
```

Author: Yea thanks - the language was a bit confusing. Updated.

> ```yaml

Reviewer 2: This isn't really yaml, and it isn't really shell either; ```` ```console ```` seems to give reasonable results when I try it.
````suggestion
```console
````

Author: This is just for formatting (i.e. looks) right? I chose `yaml` since it formatted the embedded YAML nicely.

I suppose it's an argument of how it looks vs. what is correct. I'll just use `console` most everything that isn't yaml.

$ DOMAIN=$(oc get ingresses.config/cluster -o jsonpath={.spec.domain})
$ oc apply -f - <<EOF
apiVersion: gateway.networking.k8s.io/v1beta1
kind: Gateway
metadata:
  name: demo-gateway
  namespace: openshift-ingress
spec:
  gatewayClassName: openshift-default
  listeners:
  - name: demo
    hostname: "*.gwapi.${DOMAIN}"
    port: 80
    protocol: HTTP
    allowedRoutes:
      namespaces:
        from: All
EOF
```

By default, Istio will [automatically provision](https://istio.io/latest/docs/tasks/traffic-management/ingress/gateway-api/#automated-deployment) a gateway deployment and service with the same name upon creation of this Gateway object:

> ```shell

Reviewer 2: ````suggestion
```console
````

Author: Done.

$ oc get deployment -n openshift-ingress demo-gateway
NAME           READY   UP-TO-DATE   AVAILABLE   AGE
demo-gateway   1/1     1            1           25s
$ oc get service -n openshift-ingress demo-gateway
NAME           TYPE           CLUSTER-IP       EXTERNAL-IP                          PORT(S)                        AGE
demo-gateway   LoadBalancer   172.30.175.176   domain.us-east-1.elb.amazonaws.com   15021:30608/TCP,80:31833/TCP   47s
```

> When the Gateway from the previous step is created, the Ingress Operator will automatically create a DNSRecord with the hostname from the listener:
> ```shell
> $ oc get dnsrecord -n openshift-ingress
> NAME                         AGE
> gateway-7b49f58c6-wildcard   6m11s
> ```

Reviewer 2: Careful about confusion between the CR and the actual DNS record.  It seems worthwhile to show the expected status for the CR:
````suggestion
When the Gateway from the previous step is created, the Ingress Operator will automatically create a DNSRecord CR with the hostname from the listener:
```console
$ oc get dnsrecord -n openshift-ingress
NAME                         AGE
gateway-7b49f58c6-wildcard   6m11s
```
The Ingress Operator will then create a DNS record using the cloud-specific API (for example, Route 53 on AWS) and update the status on the DNSRecord CR:
```console
$ oc get dnsrecord/gateway-7b49f58c6-wildcard -n openshift-ingress -o yaml
kind: DNSRecord
metadata:
  name: gateway-7b49f58c6-wildcard
  namespace: openshift-ingress
  [...]
spec:
  dnsName: '*.gwapi.${DOMAIN}.'
  targets:
  - domain.us-east-1.elb.amazonaws.com
  [...]
status:
  [...]
  zones:
  - conditions:
    - message: The DNS provider succeeded in ensuring the record
      reason: ProviderSuccess
      status: "True"
      type: Published
    dnsZone:
      tags:
        [...]
  - conditions:
    - message: The DNS provider succeeded in ensuring the record
      reason: ProviderSuccess
      status: "True"
      type: Published
    dnsZone:
      id: [...]
```
````

Author: That's fair. Done.

> Next, let’s create and configure a namespace called demo-app that will have our HTTPRoute object and our example application:
> ```shell
> $ oc create namespace demo-app

Reviewer 2: ````suggestion
Next, let’s create and configure a namespace called "demo-app" that will have our HTTPRoute object and our example application:
```console
$ oc create namespace demo-app
namespace/demo-app created
````

Author: Done

```

> Create a demo application deployment and service using `oc new-app`, our cakephp-ingress-demo project, and the foo git branch. This will create a simple server, foo-app, that will allow us to test connectivity. Then use the `oc rollout` command to wait for it to be rolled out:
> ```shell
> $ oc new-app -n demo-app --name foo-app https://github.com/openshiftdemos/cakephp-ingress-demo#foo
> $ oc rollout status deployment -w -n demo-app foo-app
> ```

Reviewer 2: Better to write out "the ... command" and "... GitHub project" explicitly.  In the "Getting Creative" section, you use ``` `bar` ``` and ``` `cakephp-ingress-demo` ```; please use consistent formatting here:
````suggestion
Create a demo application deployment and service using the `oc new-app` command and the `foo` branch of our `cakephp-ingress-demo` GitHub project. This will create a simple server, named "foo-app", that will allow us to test connectivity. Then use the `oc rollout` command to wait for it to be rolled out:
```console
$ oc new-app -n demo-app --name foo-app https://github.com/openshiftdemos/cakephp-ingress-demo#foo
$ oc rollout status deployment -w -n demo-app foo-app
[expected output]
```
````
What output is the reader expected to see `oc rollout status` print out?

Author: Done and added the expected output.

> Create the HTTPRoute that will direct requests for `demo.gwapi.${DOMAIN}` to our new backend server, foo-app. Note that the parentRefs points to the Gateway, rules specify a `backendRefs` to our service, and hostnames align with the Gateway’s Listeners hostnames:
> ```yaml
> $ oc apply -f - <<EOF
> apiVersion: gateway.networking.k8s.io/v1beta1
> kind: HTTPRoute
> metadata:
>   name: http
>   namespace: demo-app
> spec:
>   parentRefs:
>   - name: demo-gateway
>     namespace: openshift-ingress
>   hostnames: ["demo.gwapi.${DOMAIN}"]
>   rules:
>   - backendRefs:
>     - name: foo-app
>       port: 8080
> EOF
> ```

Reviewer 2: ````suggestion
Create the HTTPRoute CR that will direct requests for `demo.gwapi.${DOMAIN}` to our new foo-app application. Note that the `parentRefs` field points to the Gateway, `rules` specifies `backendRefs` pointing to our service, and `hostnames` specifies a host name that matches the Gateway’s listener's wildcard host name:
```console
$ oc apply -f - <<EOF
apiVersion: gateway.networking.k8s.io/v1beta1
kind: HTTPRoute
metadata:
  name: http
  namespace: demo-app
spec:
  parentRefs:
  - name: demo-gateway
    namespace: openshift-ingress
  hostnames: ["demo.gwapi.${DOMAIN}"]
  rules:
  - backendRefs:
    - name: foo-app
      port: 8080
EOF
```
httproute.gateway.networking.k8s.io/http created
````

Author: Done.

Wait for the gateway deployment to be ready:

> ```shell
> $ oc wait -n openshift-ingress --for=condition=ready gateways.gateway.networking.k8s.io demo-gateway

Reviewer 2: ````suggestion
```console
$ oc wait -n openshift-ingress --for=condition=ready gateways.gateway.networking.k8s.io demo-gateway
````
Is there some expected output, or should the reader simply wait for the command to return?

Author: Added the expected output

```

> Now let’s curl the route we just created using an HTTP Head request to only get the headers. The app response header should have a value of foo for our demo application. You may have to wait a couple minutes for DNS if your platform uses a domain name for the service’s External IP:

Reviewer 2: HTTP verbs are traditionally all upper-case.  I'm not sure whether or not to capitalize "curl" as a verb; one option would be to reword to avoid writing "curl":
```suggestion
Now let’s send a request to the HTTPRoute we just created using an HTTP HEAD request to only get the headers. The `app` response header should have a value of "foo" for our demo application. You may have to wait a couple minutes for the DNS record to propagate if your platform uses a domain name for the service’s External IP:
```
I'm not sure what "if your platform uses a domain name for the service’s External IP" means.  Can that clause be written more clearly?

Author: Done and I updated the last sentence, that was a copy/pasta error from original Dev Preview blog. It doesn't apply here.

> ```shell
> $ curl -I http://demo.gwapi.${DOMAIN}
> ```
> You should see a 200 response code:
> ```shell

Reviewer 2: ````suggestion
```console
$ curl -I http://demo.gwapi.${DOMAIN}
```
You should see a 200 response code:
```
````

Author: Done.

# Getting Started

In this section, we will show you how to install and configure Gateway API via the Ingress Operator. We will configure
a simple HTTPRoute and backend to demo basic Gateway API functionality.

Note: Since this is still a Developer Preview, it is important to note that it may not be flawless, and it is possible
for bugs to be present.

## Prerequisites

> * A non-production OpenShift Cluster, version v4.13.5 or greater, on a cloud platform that supports Kubernetes service

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* A non-production OpenShift Cluster, version 4.13.5 or greater, on a cloud platform that supports Kubernetes service
```

Author: Done.

  load balancers (e.g. GCP, AWS, and Azure)
* If OSSM is already installed, it must be OSSM 2.4.0
* If OSSM is already installed, you must not have any existing ServiceMeshControlPlane CRs

> * The [OpenShift CLI](https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.11/cli_reference/openshift_cli/getting-started-cli.html#cli-installing-cli_cli-developer-commands) binary (oc)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* The [OpenShift CLI](https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.13/cli_reference/openshift_cli/getting-started-cli.html#cli-installing-cli_cli-developer-commands) binary (oc)
```

Author: Ah good catch. Done.

openshift-gateway   5/5     ComponentsReady   ["default"]   2.4.0     107s
```

OSSM will create two new Istio deployments in the `openshift-ingress` namespace. Ensure the pods for the deployments are running. These will need to become ready for the SMCP to also go ready:
```console
$ oc get deployment -n openshift-ingress
NAME                       READY   UP-TO-DATE   AVAILABLE   AGE
istio-ingressgateway       1/1     1            1           42s
istiod-openshift-gateway   1/1     1            1           55s
router-default             2/2     2            2           6h4m
```

Gateway API and OSSM have been installed successfully and are ready to use. We are now ready to create Gateways and HTTPRoutes.

## Gateway API Example

Let’s now use Gateway API to create a Gateway and Route. In this example, we will convert a simple HTTP OpenShift Route
into roughly equivalent Gateway API objects (a Gateway and an HTTPRoute). This is the OpenShift Route that we will
convert:
```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Route
metadata:
  name: http
  namespace: demo-app
spec:
  host: demo.${DOMAIN}
  to:
    kind: Service
    name: foo-app
  port:
    targetPort: 8080
```

> First, create the Gateway with a Listener (`spec.listeners` instance) that will listen on a port for HTTP requests that

Reviewer: This still has Listener capitalized. Maybe change the listener/Listener references throughout to be `listener` to signify the object reference?

Author: Good catch, I forgot this one. Now that I look again, even Gateway API [docs](https://gateway-api.sigs.k8s.io/concepts/api-overview/) aren't consistent (some Listeners some listeners). 

I'll update to lower case to be consistent.

Author: Good point, combined into one.

```

By default, Istio will [automatically provision](https://istio.io/latest/docs/tasks/traffic-management/ingress/gateway-api/#automated-deployment) a gateway deployment and service with the same name upon creation of this Gateway object:
```console
$ oc get deployment -n openshift-ingress demo-gateway
NAME           READY   UP-TO-DATE   AVAILABLE   AGE
demo-gateway   1/1     1            1           25s

$ oc get service -n openshift-ingress demo-gateway
NAME           TYPE           CLUSTER-IP       EXTERNAL-IP                          PORT(S)                        AGE
demo-gateway   LoadBalancer   172.30.175.176   domain.us-east-1.elb.amazonaws.com   15021:30608/TCP,80:31833/TCP   47s
```

When the Gateway from the previous step is created, the Ingress Operator will automatically create a DNSRecord CR with the hostname from the listener:
```console
$ oc get dnsrecord -n openshift-ingress -l istio.io/gateway-name=demo-gateway
NAME                         AGE
gateway-7b49f58c6-wildcard   6m11s
```

The Ingress Operator will then create a DNS record using the cloud-specific API (for example, Route 53 on AWS) and update the status on the DNSRecord CR:
```console

> $ oc get dnsrecord -n openshift-ingress -l istio.io/gateway-name=demo-gateway -o yaml

Reviewer: These two commands are the same. Can these two paragraphs be consolidated?

Author: Good point, combined into one.
